The Rock is destined to be the 21st Century 's new `` Conan '' and that he 's going to make a splash even greater than Arnold Schwarzenegger , Jean-Claud Van Damme or Steven Segal . The gorgeously elaborate continuation of `` The Lord of the Rings '' trilogy is so huge that a column of words can not adequately describe co-writer\/director Peter Jackson 's expanded vision of J.R.R. Tolkien 's Middle-earth . Effective but too-tepid biopic If you sometimes like to go to the movies to have fun , Wasabi is a good place to start . Emerges as something rare , an issue movie that 's so honest and keenly observed that it does n't feel like one . The film provides some great insight into the neurotic mindset of all comics -- even those who have reached the absolute top of the game . Offers that rare combination of entertainment and education . Perhaps no picture ever made has more literally showed that the road to hell is paved with good intentions . Steers turns in a snappy screenplay that curls at the edges ; it 's so clever you want to hate it . But he somehow pulls it off .
Take Care of My Cat offers a refreshingly different slice of Asian cinema . This is a film well worth seeing , talking and singing heads and all . What really surprises about Wisegirls is its low-key quality and genuine tenderness . -LRB- Wendigo is -RRB- why we go to the cinema : to be fed through the eye , the heart , the mind . One of the greatest family-oriented , fantasy-adventure movies ever . Ultimately , it ponders the reasons we need stories so much . An utterly compelling ` who wrote it ' in which the reputation of the most famous author who ever lived comes into question . Illuminating if overly talky documentary . A masterpiece four years in the making . The movie 's ripe , enrapturing beauty will tempt those willing to probe its inscrutable mysteries .
Offers a breath of the fresh air of true sophistication . A thoughtful , provocative , insistently humanizing film . With a cast that includes some of the top actors working in independent film , Lovely & Amazing involves us because it is so incisive , so bleakly amusing about how we go about our lives . A disturbing and frighteningly evocative assembly of imagery and hypnotic music composed by Philip Glass . Not for everyone , but for those with whom it will connect , it 's a nice departure from standard moviegoing fare . Scores a few points for doing what it does with a dedicated and good-hearted professionalism . Occasionally melodramatic , it 's also extremely effective . An idealistic love story that brings out the latent 15-year-old romantic in everyone . At about 95 minutes , Treasure Planet maintains a brisk pace as it races through the familiar story . However , it lacks grandeur and that epic quality often associated with Stevenson 's tale as well as with earlier Disney efforts .
It helps that Lil Bow Wow ... tones down his pint-sized gangsta act to play someone who resembles a real kid . Guaranteed to move anyone who ever shook , rattled , or rolled . A masterful film from a master filmmaker , unique in its deceptive grimness , compelling in its fatalist worldview . Light , cute and forgettable . If there 's a way to effectively teach kids about the dangers of drugs , I think it 's in projects like the -LRB- unfortunately R-rated -RRB- Paid . While it would be easy to give Crush the new title of Two Weddings and a Funeral , it 's a far more thoughtful film than any slice of Hugh Grant whimsy . Though everything might be literate and smart , it never took off and always seemed static . Cantet perfectly captures the hotel lobbies , two-lane highways , and roadside cafes that permeate Vincent 's days Ms. Fulford-Wierzbicki is almost spooky in her sulky , calculating Lolita turn . Though it is by no means his best work , Laissez-Passer is a distinguished and distinctive effort by a bona-fide master , a fascinating film replete with rewards to be had by all willing to make the effort to reap them .
Like most Bond outings in recent years , some of the stunts are so outlandish that they border on being cartoonlike . A heavy reliance on CGI technology is beginning to creep into the series . Newton draws our attention like a magnet , and acts circles around her better known co-star , Mark Wahlberg . The story loses its bite in a last-minute happy ending that 's even less plausible than the rest of the picture . Much of the way , though , this is a refreshingly novel ride . Fuller would surely have called this gutsy and at times exhilarating movie a great yarn . The film makes a strong case for the importance of the musicians in creating the Motown sound . Karmen moves like rhythm itself , her lips chanting to the beat , her long , braided hair doing little to wipe away the jeweled beads of sweat . Gosling provides an amazing performance that dwarfs everything else in the film . A real movie , about real people , that gives us a rare glimpse into a culture most of us do n't know .
Tender yet lacerating and darkly funny fable . May be spoofing an easy target -- those old ' 50 's giant creature features -- but ... it acknowledges and celebrates their cheesiness as the reason why people get a kick out of watching them today . An engaging overview of Johnson 's eccentric career . In its ragged , cheap and unassuming way , the movie works . Some actors have so much charisma that you 'd be happy to listen to them reading the phone book . Hugh Grant and Sandra Bullock are two such likeable actors . Sandra Nettelbeck beautifully orchestrates the transformation of the chilly , neurotic , and self-absorbed Martha as her heart begins to open . Behind the snow games and lovable Siberian huskies -LRB- plus one sheep dog -RRB- , the picture hosts a parka-wrapped dose of heart . Everytime you think Undercover Brother has run out of steam , it finds a new way to surprise and amuse . Manages to be original , even though it rips off many of its ideas .
Singer\/composer Bryan Adams contributes a slew of songs -- a few potential hits , a few more simply intrusive to the story -- but the whole package certainly captures the intended , er , spirit of the piece . You 'd think by now America would have had enough of plucky British eccentrics with hearts of gold . Yet the act is still charming here . Whether or not you 're enlightened by any of Derrida 's lectures on `` the other '' and `` the self , '' Derrida is an undeniably fascinating and playful fellow . A pleasant enough movie , held together by skilled ensemble actors . This is the best American movie about troubled teens since 1998 's Whatever . Disney has always been hit-or-miss when bringing beloved kids ' books to the screen ... Tuck Everlasting is a little of both . Just the labour involved in creating the layered richness of the imagery in this chiaroscuro of madness and light is astonishing . The animated subplot keenly depicts the inner struggles of our adolescent heroes - insecure , uncontrolled , and intense . The invincible Werner Herzog is alive and well and living in LA
Morton is a great actress portraying a complex character , but Morvern Callar grows less compelling the farther it meanders from its shocking start . Part of the charm of Satin Rouge is that it avoids the obvious with humour and lightness . Son of the Bride may be a good half-hour too long but comes replete with a flattering sense of mystery and quietness . A simmering psychological drama in which the bursts of sudden violence are all the more startling for the slow buildup that has preceded them . A taut , intelligent psychological drama . A truly moving experience , and a perfect example of how art -- when done right -- can help heal , clarify , and comfort . This delicately observed story , deeply felt and masterfully stylized , is a triumph for its maverick director . At heart the movie is a deftly wrought suspense yarn whose richer shadings work as coloring rather than substance . The appearance of Treebeard and Gollum 's expanded role will either have you loving what you 're seeing , or rolling your eyes . I loved it !
Gollum 's ` performance ' is incredible ! a screenplay more ingeniously constructed than `` Memento '' If this movie were a book , it would be a page-turner , you ca n't wait to see what happens next . Haneke challenges us to confront the reality of sexual aberration . Absorbing and disturbing -- perhaps more disturbing than originally intended -- but a little clarity would have gone a long way . It 's the best film of the year so far , the benchmark against which all other Best Picture contenders should be measured . Painful to watch , but viewers willing to take a chance will be rewarded with two of the year 's most accomplished and riveting film performances . This is a startling film that gives you a fascinating , albeit depressing view of Iranian rural life close to the Iraqi border . A few artsy flourishes aside , Narc is as gritty as a movie gets these days . While The Isle is both preposterous and thoroughly misogynistic , its vistas are incredibly beautiful to look at .
Together , Tok and O orchestrate a buoyant , darkly funny dance of death . In the process , they demonstrate that there 's still a lot of life in Hong Kong cinema . Director Kapur is a filmmaker with a real flair for epic landscapes and adventure , and this is a better film than his earlier English-language movie , the overpraised Elizabeth . The movie is a blast of educational energy , as bouncy animation and catchy songs escort you through the entire 85 minutes . A sports movie with action that 's exciting on the field and a story you care about off it . Doug Liman , the director of Bourne , directs the traffic well , gets a nice wintry look from his locations , absorbs us with the movie 's spycraft and uses Damon 's ability to be focused and sincere . The tenderness of the piece is still intact . Katz uses archival footage , horrifying documents of lynchings , still photographs and charming old reel-to-reel recordings of Meeropol entertaining his children to create his song history , but most powerful of all is the song itself Like the film 's almost anthropologically detailed realization of early - '80s suburbia , it 's significant without being overstated . While McFarlane 's animation lifts the film firmly above the level of other coming-of-age films ... it 's also so jarring that it 's hard to get back into the boys ' story .
If nothing else , this movie introduces a promising , unusual kind of psychological horror . In a normal screen process , these bromides would be barely enough to sustain an interstitial program on the Discovery Channel . But in Imax 3-D , the clichés disappear into the vertiginous perspectives opened up by the photography . Writer-director Burger imaginatively fans the embers of a dormant national grief and curiosity that has calcified into chronic cynicism and fear . ... a roller-coaster ride of a movie I enjoyed Time of Favor while I was watching it , but I was surprised at how quickly it faded from my memory . Chicago is sophisticated , brash , sardonic , completely joyful in its execution . Steve Irwin 's method is Ernest Hemmingway at accelerated speed and volume . A refreshing Korean film about five female high school friends who face an uphill battle when they try to take their relationships into deeper waters . On the surface , it 's a lovers-on-the-run crime flick , but it has a lot in common with Piesiewicz 's and Kieslowski 's earlier work , films like The Double Life of Veronique .
The values that have held the Enterprise crew together through previous adventures and perils do so again-courage , self-sacrifice and patience under pressure . If it 's possible for a sequel to outshine the original , then SL2 does just that . A romantic comedy that operates by the rules of its own self-contained universe . 4 friends , 2 couples , 2000 miles , and all the Pabst Blue Ribbon beer they can drink - it 's the ultimate redneck road-trip . The film is often filled with a sense of pure wonderment and excitement not often seen in today 's cinema du sarcasm It might be tempting to regard Mr. Andrew and his collaborators as oddballs , but Mr. Earnhart 's quizzical , charming movie allows us to see them , finally , as artists . A feel-good picture in the best sense of the term . Edited and shot with a syncopated style mimicking the work of his subjects , Pray turns the idea of the documentary on its head , making it rousing , invigorating fun lacking any MTV puffery . A mostly intelligent , engrossing and psychologically resonant suspenser . It 's this memory-as-identity obviation that gives Secret Life its intermittent unease , reaffirming that long-held illusions are indeed reality , and that erasing them recasts the self .
Hip-hop has a history , and it 's a metaphor for this love story . In scope , ambition and accomplishment , Children of the Century ... takes Kurys ' career to a whole new level . This may not have the dramatic gut-wrenching impact of other Holocaust films , but it 's a compelling story , mainly because of the way it 's told by the people who were there . Between the drama of Cube ? s personal revelations regarding what the shop means in the big picture , iconic characters gambol fluidly through the story , with charming results . A gentle , compassionate drama about grief and healing . Somewhere short of Tremors on the modern B-scene : neither as funny nor as clever , though an agreeably unpretentious way to spend ninety minutes . Digital-video documentary about stand-up comedians is a great glimpse into a very different world . Unlike most teen flicks , Swimming takes its time to tell its story , casts mostly little-known performers in key roles , and introduces some intriguing ambiguity . An enthralling , playful film that constantly frustrates our desire to know the ` truth ' about this man , while deconstructing the very format of the biography in a manner that Derrida would doubtless give his blessing to .
`` Extreme Ops '' exceeds expectations . Good fun , good action , good acting , good dialogue , good pace , good cinematography . You Should Pay Nine Bucks for This : Because you can hear about suffering Afghan refugees on the news and still be unaffected . Dramas like this make it human . A thunderous ride at first , quiet cadences of pure finesse are few and far between ; their shortage dilutes the potency of otherwise respectable action . Still , this flick is fun , and host to some truly excellent sequences . It 's obviously struck a responsive chord with many South Koreans , and should work its magic in other parts of the world . Run , do n't walk , to see this barbed and bracing comedy on the big screen . A classy item by a legend who may have nothing left to prove but still has the chops and drive to show how its done . It is nature against progress .
In Fessenden 's horror trilogy , this theme has proved important to him and is especially so in the finale . It 's not exactly a gourmet meal but the fare is fair , even coming from the drive-thru . This is what IMAX was made for : Strap on a pair of 3-D goggles , shut out the real world , and take a vicarious voyage to the last frontier -- space . Merely as a technical , logistical feat , Russian Ark marks a cinematic milestone . -LRB- Schweiger is -RRB- talented and terribly charismatic , qualities essential to both movie stars and social anarchists . It 's a great deal of sizzle and very little steak . But what spectacular sizzle it is ! ... In this incarnation its fizz is infectious . An original gem about an obsession with time . It will delight newcomers to the story and those who know it from bygone days .
Gloriously goofy -LRB- and gory -RRB- midnight movie stuff . The film overcomes the regular minefield of coming-of-age cliches with potent doses of honesty and sensitivity . If your senses have n't been dulled by slasher films and gorefests , if you 're a connoisseur of psychological horror , this is your ticket . It 's a minor comedy that tries to balance sweetness with coarseness , while it paints a sad picture of the singles scene . It is intensely personal and yet -- unlike Quills -- deftly shows us the temper of the times . As lo-fi as the special effects are , the folks who cobbled Nemesis together indulge the force of humanity over hardware in a way that George Lucas has long forgotten . Like Mike does n't win any points for originality . It does succeed by following a feel-good formula with a winning style , and by offering its target audience of urban kids some welcome role models and optimism . It 's a hoot and a half , and a great way for the American people to see what a candidate is like when he 's not giving the same 15-cent stump speech . Far from perfect , but its heart is in the right place ... innocent and well-meaning .
A sad , superior human comedy played out on the back roads of life . Waydowntown is by no means a perfect film , but its boasts a huge charm factor and smacks of originality . Tim Allen is great in his role but never hogs the scenes from his fellow cast , as there are plenty of laughs and good lines for everyone in this comedy . More a load of enjoyable , Conan-esque claptrap than the punishing , special-effects soul assaults the Mummy pictures represent . Enormously likable , partly because it is aware of its own grasp of the absurd . Here 's a British flick gleefully unconcerned with plausibility , yet just as determined to entertain you . It 's an old story , but a lively script , sharp acting and partially animated interludes make Just a Kiss seem minty fresh . Must be seen to be believed . Ray Liotta and Jason Patric do some of their best work in their underwritten roles , but do n't be fooled : Nobody deserves any prizes here . Everything that has to do with Yvan and Charlotte , and everything that has to do with Yvan 's rambunctious , Jewish sister and her non-Jew husband , feels funny and true .
The year 's happiest surprise , a movie that deals with a real subject in an always surprising way . Fans of Behan 's work and of Irish movies in general will be rewarded by Borstal Boy . Its mysteries are transparently obvious , and it 's too slowly paced to be a thriller . -LRB- But it 's -RRB- worth recommending because of two marvelous performances by Michael Caine and Brendan Fraser . The film is faithful to what one presumes are the book 's twin premises -- that we become who we are on the backs of our parents , but we have no idea who they were at our age ; and that time is a fleeting and precious commodity no matter how old you are . Stephen Earnhart 's homespun documentary Mule Skinner Blues has nothing but love for its posse of trailer park denizens . A solidly seaworthy chiller . If you can get past the fantastical aspects and harsh realities of `` The Isle '' you 'll get a sock-you-in-the-eye flick that is a visual tour-de-force and a story that is unlike any you will likely see anywhere else . There are as many misses as hits , but ultimately , it finds humor in the foibles of human behavior , and it 's a welcome return to the roots of a genre that should depend on surprises . A well-made thriller with a certain level of intelligence and non-reactionary morality .
There 's enough science to make it count as educational , and enough beauty to make it unforgettable . Remains a solid , if somewhat heavy-handed , account of the near-disaster ... done up by Howard with a steady , if not very imaginative , hand . Makmalbaf follows a resolutely realistic path in this uncompromising insight into the harsh existence of the Kurdish refugees of Iran 's borderlands . For a good chunk of its running time , Trapped is an effective and claustrophobic thriller . Most of Crush is a clever and captivating romantic comedy with a welcome pinch of tartness . Nair does capture the complexity of a big family and its trials and tribulations ... The seaside splendor and shallow , beautiful people are nice to look at while you wait for the story to get going . Rare is the ` urban comedy ' that even attempts the insight and honesty of this disarming indie . Ranks among Willams ' best screen work . Engagingly captures the maddening and magnetic ebb and flow of friendship .
An experience so engrossing it is like being buried in a new environment . It 's traditional moviemaking all the way , but it 's done with a lot of careful period attention as well as some very welcome wit . Maybe it 's just because this past year has seen the release of some of the worst film comedies in decades ... But honestly , Analyze That really is n't all that bad . A droll , well-acted , character-driven comedy with unexpected deposits of feeling . This is simply the most fun you 'll ever have with a documentary ! A very funny movie . Watching Haneke 's film is , aptly enough , a challenge and a punishment . But watching Huppert , a great actress tearing into a landmark role , is riveting . A cop story that understands the medium amazingly well . Britney has been delivered to the big screen safe and sound , the way we like our 20-year-old superstar girls to travel on the fame freeway .
Those outside show business will enjoy a close look at people they do n't really want to know . The kind of nervous film that will either give you a mild headache or exhilarate you . Watching Beanie and his gang put together his slasher video from spare parts and borrowed materials is as much fun as it must have been for them to make it . Children may not understand everything that happens -- I 'm not sure even Miyazaki himself does -- but they will almost certainly be fascinated , and undoubtedly delighted . A fascinating and fun film . Tadpole is a sophisticated , funny and good-natured treat , slight but a pleasure . This insightful , Oscar-nominated documentary , in which children on both sides of the ever-escalating conflict have their say away from watchful parental eyes , gives peace yet another chance . I admired this work a lot . Whether you 're moved and love it , or bored or frustrated by the film , you 'll still feel something . ... there are enough moments of heartbreaking honesty to keep one glued to the screen .
My goodness , Queen Latifah has a lot to offer and she seemed to have no problem flaunting her natural gifts . She must have a very strong back . A smart , sweet and playful romantic comedy . Australian actor\/director John Polson and award-winning English cinematographer Giles Nuttgens make a terrific effort at disguising the obvious with energy and innovation . Without heavy-handedness , Dong provides perspective with his intelligent grasp of human foibles and contradictions . Solid , lump-in-the-throat family entertainment that derives its power by sticking to the facts . As an entertainment , the movie keeps you diverted and best of all , it lightens your wallet without leaving a sting . It is interesting and fun to see Goodall and her chimpanzees on the bigger-than-life screen . It wo n't bust your gut -- and it 's not intended to -- it 's merely a blandly cinematic surgical examination of what makes a joke a joke . A somewhat crudely constructed but gripping , questing look at a person so racked with self-loathing , he becomes an enemy to his own race .
It extends the writings of Jean Genet and John Rechy , the films of Fassbinder , perhaps even the nocturnal works of Goya . Narc may not get an ` A ' for originality , but it wears its B-movie heritage like a badge of honor . With the film 's striking ending , one realizes that we have a long way to go before we fully understand all the sexual permutations involved . -LRB- Drumline -RRB- is entertaining for what it does , and admirable for what it does n't do . At its best early on as it plays the culture clashes between the brothers . An unabashedly schmaltzy and thoroughly enjoyable true story . A thoughtful look at a painful incident that made headlines in 1995 . You walk out of The Good Girl with mixed emotions -- disapproval of Justine combined with a tinge of understanding for her actions . Tsai Ming-liang has taken his trademark style and refined it to a crystalline point . Purely propaganda , a work of unabashed hero worship , it is nonetheless -- and likely inadvertently -- a timely and invaluable implicit reminder of the role that U.S. foreign policy has played in the rise of Castro .
Now trimmed by about 20 minutes , this lavish three-year-old production has enough grandeur and scale to satisfy as grown-up escapism . We get some truly unique character studies and a cross-section of Americana that Hollywood could n't possibly fictionalize and be believed . Though this film can be clumsy , its ambitions are equally -- and admirably -- uncommercial . Daring , mesmerizing and exceedingly hard to forget . Moore 's performance impresses almost as much as her work with Haynes in 1995 's Safe . Visits spy-movie territory like a novel you ca n't put down , examines a footnote to history seldom brought to light on the screen , and keeps you guessing from first frame to last . An absorbing , slice-of-depression life that touches nerves and rings true . Mr. Parker has brilliantly updated his source and grasped its essence , composing a sorrowful and hilarious tone poem about alienated labor , or an absurdist workplace sitcom . The result is something quite fresh and delightful . All but the most persnickety preteens should enjoy this nonthreatening but thrilling adventure .
Despite its many infuriating flaws -- not the least of which is Amy 's self-absorbed personality -- Amy 's O 's honesty will win you over . This is one of Polanski 's best films . Day is not a great Bond movie , but it is a good Bond movie , which still makes it much better than your typical Bond knock-offs . Polished Korean political-action film is just as good -- and bad -- as Hollywood action epics . Is this progress ? Elling , portrayed with quiet fastidiousness by Per Christian Ellefsen , is a truly singular character , one whose frailties are only slightly magnified versions of the ones that vex nearly everyone . Denis and co-writer Michele Petin 's impeccable screenplay penetrates with a rawness that that is both unflinching and tantalizing . Lead provocatuers Testud and Parmentier give superlative performances An absorbing trip into the minds and motivations of people under stress as well as a keen , unsentimental look at variations on the theme of motherhood . I admired it , particularly that unexpected downer of an ending .
